Document copy/translation/i18n/PO file process (#1447)
cal-itp/benefits: benefits/locale/README.md

# Copy process

The `LC_MESSAGES` folders in this directory contain the `django.po` message files for English and Spanish translation strings for the Benefits application.

Translation strings include all application copy, including:

- All application copy
- Image and illustration alt tags
- Page titles used in the browser tab
- In-line link URLs

## BENEFITS STRING SPREADSHEET NAME TBD

> The human-readable version of the English and Spanish translation strings for the application are delivered to Design and Engineering by Product, and live at this link: [Benefits String Spreadsheet NAME TBD](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13YZLv7wf8dAk_HnEP-KLEUurTggx8QOx9HovEW4_UjI/edit#gid=0).

Author: ```suggestion
The human-readable version of the English and Spanish translation strings for the application are delivered to Design and Engineering by Product, and live at this link: [Benefits Copy Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13YZLv7wf8dAk_HnEP-KLEUurTggx8QOx9HovEW4_UjI/edit#gid=0).
```

> The human-readable version of the English and Spanish translation strings for the application are delivered to Design and Engineering by Product, and live at this link: [Benefits String Spreadsheet NAME TBD](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13YZLv7wf8dAk_HnEP-KLEUurTggx8QOx9HovEW4_UjI/edit#gid=0).

Reviewer: Please update document URL: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_Gi_YbJr4ZuXCOsnOWaewvHqUO1nC1nKqiVDHvw0118

## Copy process responsibilities

### Product

- Engaging with product stakeholders to get the information necessary for copy writing.
- Engaging with copy writers to get the English language copy drafted, proofed and ready for design.
- Engaging with client editorial/communications team to ensure English language and Spanish language copy are edited according to client style guides.
- Engaging all necessary stakeholders to get English language copy approved and ready for design.
- Compiling copy in [Benefits String Spreadsheet NAME TBD](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13YZLv7wf8dAk_HnEP-KLEUurTggx8QOx9HovEW4_UjI/edit#gid=0), ready to be used by Design, so Design can sync the spreadsheet to Figma.
- Engaging with the translation agency, [iBabbleOn](https://ibabbleon.com/), to get Spanish translations ready for Engineering.
- Ensure English and Spanish copy is ready for Engineering.

### Design

- Syncing copy from [Benefits String Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13YZLv7wf8dAk_HnEP-KLEUurTggx8QOx9HovEW4_UjI/edit#gid=0) into Figma.
- Ensuring the string is in the appropriate column (e.g. `Subtitle`, `ButtonLabel`)

> ### Engineering

Reviewer: Need to add a reminder to run `bin/makemessages.sh`: https://github.com/cal-itp/benefits/pull/1436#discussion_r1242647512

Reviewer: Now that #1571 is done, engineers should be editing copy directly in the app for English, then running `bin/makemessages.sh`, then updating the corresponding Spanish in the PO file.

Author: Updated in the dev i18n docs: https://github.com/cal-itp/benefits/pull/1447/files#diff-739a6fd0a2d16786a1fad0499fde882753fee93043bb1f8b1a4b03ba5c75ea06
